Our digital ocean cluster is up and running, we can connect to it and now it's time to start to deploy
our application to it.
I'm going to show you a diagram very quickly that's going to outline how we are going to use a GitHub
action workflow to automatically deploy all of our different services to this running cluster.
So the first time we look at this diagram, it's going to be a little bit confusing.
So let me walk you through it.
Each of these vertical series right here.
So we've got one vertical series right there, another one right there and so on, represents a different
workflow file that we're going to put together, or essentially a separate GitHub action.
So in total, we're going to have about seven different workflow files.
In each of these different workflow files, we are going to have a little bit of configuration that's
going to run any time that we merge a pull request into the master branch.
Whenever we merge a pull request into the master branch, we're going to inspect each of our different
services so the service client expiration and so on.
And if anything had changed inside of that service or specifically inside of our folder, client folder,
expiration folder and so on, then we're going to go through the series of steps that you see on the
right hand side.
So long story short, just to repeat that one more time, because this is a confusing diagram.
Every time that we merge a polar request into the master branch, we're going to see if anything changed
inside of that directory.
And if it did, we're going to go through this series of steps.
So that series of steps, we're going to first take everything inside that art directory and build a
new image out of it.
So that's a normal Docker image, similar to how we've done it many, many times in the past.
We're then going to take that image and push it off to Docker Hub.
After that, we're going to reach out to our running cluster.
So our cluster on digital ocean and we're going to update our deployment for the service and we're going
to tell that deployment to use the newest version of the auth image that is available, the one that
we had just pushed off to Docker Hub.
So that is it for each of our individual six services.
The actual workflow files or the GitHub action files are going to be almost identical in nature.
The reason we are creating all these workflow files separately is just so we can make sure that we do
not rebuild and deploy images if nothing has changed inside of a given service.
In addition, this is also going to make it really easy for us to change the building process for a
particular service if we need to at some point in time.
For example, we might decide to rewrite the payment service using a different programming language
at some point.
And so we would want to make sure that we could very easily customize how that payment service gets
built at some point.
And maybe we need to push it off to a different provider.
Who knows?
We can do that very easily by creating a separate workflow for each of our different services.
Now beyond each of our individual services.
Remember, we also have that set of Kubernetes config files, which is where we create all of our different
actual services, where we define our ingress service and where we also define all the different deployments
themselves.
So as an additional workflow, in addition to all these other six that we're going to put together,
we're going to have one other workflow that is always going to be executed at all times.
And we're going to make sure that we reach into that infra directory.
And we're going to apply all the YAML files inside there to our cluster.
Remember that?
The infra directory.
Right here is where all of our Kubernetes config files live.
So if we make any changes to these config files, we're just going to reapply them to our cluster.
That's it.
That's the general plan.
So total, we're got to create, well, seven different config files.
Now, to be honest with you, we're really only going to great to at the end of the day we're really
just going to create the fourth one and then pretty much copy paste it or client expiration and so on.
And the only other one that we really have to write from scratch is infra.
So although we do have to create several different files, we really only have to create two from scratch
and then from there on it will really just be a job of copy paste.
Okay.
So now that we understand the plan break here, we're going to start to implement this in just a moment.